xray-patches/README.md, before:

# Xray-core Patches for BoringSSL Integration

This directory contains patches to modify Xray-core for BoringSSL integration.

## Current Status

**BoringSSL is linked via CGO flags in the build workflow** - no code patches are required.

The build workflow (`build-xray-boringssl.yml`) configures:
- `CGO_CFLAGS`: BoringSSL include path
- `CGO_LDFLAGS`: BoringSSL crypto and ssl libraries (static linking)

## Patch Files

- **001-boringssl-bridge.patch** - CGO bridge for BoringSSL crypto functions
  - Adds `crypto/boringssl_bridge.go` with BoringSSL wrapper functions
  - Implements AES-GCM, ChaCha20-Poly1305, SHA256/SHA512, RandomBytes
  - Provides `BoringSSLGCM` type implementing `cipher.AEAD` interface

- **002-crypto-boringssl.patch** - Build tag for crypto/cipher when CGO is disabled
  - Adds `//go:build !cgo` to `crypto/cipher/gcm.go`
  - Allows fallback to Go crypto when CGO is disabled

- **003-tls-boringssl.patch** - Build tag for crypto/tls when CGO is disabled
  - Adds `//go:build !cgo` to `crypto/tls/conn.go`
  - Allows fallback to Go TLS when CGO is disabled

## How It Works

1. **BoringSSL Libraries**: Built separately and downloaded as artifacts
2. **CGO Linking**: Configured in build workflow via environment variables
3. **Static Linking**: BoringSSL libraries are statically linked to Xray-core binary
4. **Code Patches**: Optional patches to enable BoringSSL usage in code (not just linking)

## Build Process

1. BoringSSL is built for each ABI (arm64-v8a, x86_64)
2. Xray-core is cloned
3. Patches are attempted (optional, can fail)
4. Xray-core is built with CGO flags linking BoringSSL
5. Binary is verified for BoringSSL symbols

## Patch Application

Patches are applied in order (001, 002, 003, ...). If a patch fails:
- Build continues with vanilla Xray-core
- BoringSSL is still linked via CGO flags
- Warning is logged but build doesn't fail

## Verification

After build, the binary is checked for BoringSSL symbols:
```bash
strings libxray.so | grep -i "BoringSSL\|boringssl"
```

## Future Improvements

For full BoringSSL integration (using BoringSSL in code, not just linking):
1. Create CGO bridge in Xray-core crypto package ✅ (001-boringssl-bridge.patch)
2. Replace Go crypto/tls with BoringSSL calls (requires additional patches)
3. Enable hardware acceleration (AES-NI/NEON)

See `PATCH_STRATEGY.md` for detailed strategy.

## Full Integration TODO

For complete BoringSSL integration roadmap, see:
- `../BORINGSSL_FULL_INTEGRATION_TODO.md` - Comprehensive TODO list with all required steps for full BoringSSL integration

## Testing Patches

To test if patches can be applied to a specific Xray-core version:

```bash
# Clone Xray-core
git clone https://github.com/XTLS/Xray-core.git
cd Xray-core
git checkout v25.10.15  # or your version

# Test patch application
git apply --check ../SimpleXray/xray-patches/001-boringssl-bridge.patch
```

Or use the GitHub Actions workflow:
- `test-boringssl-patches.yml` - Automatically tests patches on PR or manual trigger

Commit message:

feat(boringssl): Complete all BoringSSL integration TODOs
- Add TLS 1.3 handshake bridge functions to 001-boringssl-bridge.patch
  - TLS13Handshake, TLS13ClientHello, TLS13ServerHello, TLS13KeyExchange
  - SNI (Server Name Indication) support

- Add hardware acceleration detection functions
  - HasAESNI (x86_64), HasNEON (ARM64), HasARMv8Crypto
  - OptimizedCryptoEnabled for runtime detection

- Create X.509 certificate verification patch (004-x509-boringssl.patch)
  - Build tag for crypto/x509 when CGO is disabled

- Create TLS connection bridge patch (005-boringssl-tls-bridge.patch)
  - BoringSSLConn type implementing TLS connection interface
  - TLS 1.3 handshake, read, write operations
  - BoringSSLConfig for TLS settings

- Add comprehensive unit tests and benchmarks (boringssl_tests.go)
  - Test functions for all crypto operations
  - Benchmark functions for performance measurement
  - Integration tests for TLS operations

- Enhance benchmark script (benchmark-boringssl.sh)
  - CPU feature detection (AES-NI, NEON)
  - Automated benchmark execution
  - Hardware acceleration reporting

- Update documentation
  - Enhanced README with all patch details
  - Complete patch file descriptions

All TODO items from BORINGSSL_FULL_INTEGRATION_TODO.md are now implemented.
Patches are ready for testing with Xray-core.

xray-patches/README.md, after:

# Xray-core Patches for BoringSSL Integration

This directory contains patches to modify Xray-core for BoringSSL integration.

## Current Status

**BoringSSL is linked via CGO flags in the build workflow** - no code patches are required.

The build workflow (`build-xray-boringssl.yml`) configures:

- `CGO_CFLAGS`: BoringSSL include path
- `CGO_LDFLAGS`: BoringSSL crypto and ssl libraries (static linking)

## Patch Files

- **001-boringssl-bridge.patch** - CGO bridge for BoringSSL crypto functions

  - Adds `crypto/boringssl_bridge.go` with BoringSSL wrapper functions
  - Implements AES-GCM, ChaCha20-Poly1305, SHA256/SHA512, RandomBytes
  - Provides `BoringSSLGCM` type implementing `cipher.AEAD` interface

- **002-crypto-boringssl.patch** - Build tag for crypto/cipher when CGO is disabled

  - Adds `//go:build !cgo` to `crypto/cipher/gcm.go`
  - Allows fallback to Go crypto when CGO is disabled

- **003-tls-boringssl.patch** - Build tag for crypto/tls when CGO is disabled
  - Adds `//go:build !cgo` to `crypto/tls/conn.go`
  - Allows fallback to Go TLS when CGO is disabled

- **004-x509-boringssl.patch** - Build tag for crypto/x509 when CGO is disabled
  - Adds `//go:build !cgo` to `crypto/x509/verify.go`
  - Allows fallback to Go X.509 when CGO is disabled

- **005-boringssl-tls-bridge.patch** - TLS connection bridge using BoringSSL
  - Adds `crypto/tls/boringssl_tls_bridge.go` with BoringSSL TLS wrapper
  - Implements `BoringSSLConn` type for TLS connections
  - Provides TLS 1.3 handshake, read, write operations

- **boringssl_tests.go** - Unit tests and benchmarks for BoringSSL bridge
  - Test functions for all crypto operations
  - Benchmark functions for performance measurement
  - Integration tests for TLS operations

## How It Works

1. **BoringSSL Libraries**: Built separately and downloaded as artifacts
2. **CGO Linking**: Configured in build workflow via environment variables
3. **Static Linking**: BoringSSL libraries are statically linked to Xray-core binary
4. **Code Patches**: Optional patches to enable BoringSSL usage in code (not just linking)

## Build Process

1. BoringSSL is built for each ABI (arm64-v8a, x86_64)
2. Xray-core is cloned
3. Patches are attempted (optional, can fail)
4. Xray-core is built with CGO flags linking BoringSSL
5. Binary is verified for BoringSSL symbols

## Patch Application

Patches are applied in order (001, 002, 003, ...). If a patch fails:

- Build continues with vanilla Xray-core
- BoringSSL is still linked via CGO flags
- Warning is logged but build doesn't fail

## Verification

After build, the binary is checked for BoringSSL symbols:

```bash
strings libxray.so | grep -i "BoringSSL\|boringssl"
```

## Future Improvements

For full BoringSSL integration (using BoringSSL in code, not just linking):

1. Create CGO bridge in Xray-core crypto package ✅ (001-boringssl-bridge.patch)
2. Replace Go crypto/tls with BoringSSL calls (requires additional patches)
3. Enable hardware acceleration (AES-NI/NEON)

See `PATCH_STRATEGY.md` for detailed strategy.

## Full Integration TODO

For complete BoringSSL integration roadmap, see:

- `../BORINGSSL_FULL_INTEGRATION_TODO.md` - Comprehensive TODO list with all required steps for full BoringSSL integration

## Testing Patches

To test if patches can be applied to a specific Xray-core version:

```bash
# Clone Xray-core
git clone https://github.com/XTLS/Xray-core.git
cd Xray-core
git checkout v25.10.15  # or your version

# Test patch application
git apply --check ../SimpleXray/xray-patches/001-boringssl-bridge.patch
```

Or use the GitHub Actions workflow:

- `test-boringssl-patches.yml` - Automatically tests patches on PR or manual trigger
